
Amazon Interview | Set 105 (On-Campus)

Written Round:

20Q questions on C, data structures , some aptitude questions and other related concepts.

2 coding questions :

    Merge overlapping intervals. This question has come many times so I am not repeating it.
    Given a singly linked list you have to subtract the value of first node from the last node and so on until you reach the middle node.

Eg 5 -> 4->3->2 ->1

Output : 4->2->3->2->1.

First PI:

1. A brief discussion on my projects that I have done .

2. One thing that I am most proud of , a discussion on this .

3. Given an array you have to write two functions:

a.) getMinimum();

b.) upate(index, value);

A detailed description on my approach , I gave him 2-3 approaches which were not satisfactory , He told me to give it a fresh thought , then I have him a solution . He was satisfied and then he asked me to code it.

4. Some basic questions on operating system concepts like CPU scheduling, why CPU scheduling , advantages , types. Questions on deadlock.

Second PI :

    Tell me about yourself.
    Discussion on graph data structure , then asked me to find number of three node cycles in a graph .Write code.
    Given a string , find minimum distance between two given characters of the string, write code.

A detailed discussion on its complexity and the code I wrote.

Third Round :

    A detailed discussion on my projects.
    What happens when you type in a url .
    Suppose that a user reports that your website is taking a long time to load , suggest possible remedies .
    Difference between TCP and UDP.
    Implement LRU cache. Code required.
    A simple question on doubly linked list . Code Required .

Fourth Round( Bar Raiser /BR Round):

It was a telephonic round . I was given a design problem . We have a customer using amazon Kindle , suppose he wants to borrow a book for some days , lets say x and wants to finish reading the book within the days limit. The book contains ,lets say y chapters ,once he starts reading a chapter he has to finish that on the same day . He can read the book only in a sequential manner , you have to tell how many chapters should he read on each day so that he can finish reading the book .

A discussion on my approach and

Then he asked me to write a code for it.

Then he asked me some HR related questions .

    Quote some example when you have motivated your team .
    Quote some example when you have led down your team .
    What projects and subjects are you interested into.

And some others, I don’t remember.

It was an amazing experience, I learned a lot from it. Thanx a lot to GeeksForGeeks, you have helped me a lot.

Suggestions / Tips :

They need a code for whatever algorithm you are telling them, so be specific, take your time to jump to a conclusion .Discuss whatever you have in your mind , everything you discuss matters and creates an impact , they will also guide you at times, and stay cool and relaxed, clear any doubts you have. And an important thing is to try to justify each and every thing you say, that matters a lot.

If you like GeeksforGeeks and would like to contribute, you can also write an article and mail your article to contribute@geeksforgeeks.org. See your article appearing on the GeeksforGeeks main page and help other Geeks.
