

Amazon Interview | Set 63 (For SDE-1)

I have a total experience of two years. I am sharing my interview experience with Amazon. This is for SDE1 Amazon.

A very big thanks to whole team of geeks for geeks. It is because of them only that I was able to make Amazon and get a job in my dream company. Otherwise it was impossible for me.

Online round: (1hr, working code required)

    Given coin array and a sum K, find min. number of required coin to make sum K. (DP Question)
    Two rectangles are given in two D space. Find if these are overlapping or not
    KMP for pattern searching

After two days I got the call to come Amazon Bangalore ofc to attend next rounds:

1st Round:

    First occurrence of duplicate char  in a char array.
    Merge two sorted array of n and n+m size
    Zig-zag traversal of tree

2nd Round (Hiring Manager, full explanation in white board):

    Tell me about one of your best project, deep drive J
    Count the words in a file (simple one)
    Design parking system.

3rd Round: (one or two DS ques I forgot)

    Reverse every k-element in  a linked list
    Check if two tree are mirror tree
    Find longest palindrome in a string
    Find sum K from an unsorted array which have both –ive & +ive numbers.
    Full explanation about tries (search, insert, traversal, delet)
    Full browser working
    Lock variable and their implementation (OS)
    What is hashing, if any hash function mapping tow inputs to one output then how to handle that scenario at the time of retrieval, you can’t change hash function.

After one week I got the call from HR for my BR round.

4th Round (BR Round, full on white board):

    Cultural fit questions: tell me about yourself, why you are looking for change, what innovative you did in last two year (I had already preparation for all these type of questions) J
    Lots of discussion happened about my current project.
    Given two string remove the characters of one string from another string
    o   Another variation he asked: Given two string remove the characters of one string(having duplicate characters) from another string

    o   One more variation he asked: Given two string remove the characters of one string(having duplicate characters) from another string from right to left.

    Given one string, print all the anagrams of this string from a given file which contains lots of strings.
    o   Another variation of this he asked: Given group of string, print all the anagrams of all given string from the file of strings.

    After that he asked one more culture fit question

He was very happy after seeing my explanationsJ J
